1. J Tradit Chin Med. 2020 Aug;40(4):690-702. doi: 
10.19852/j.cnki.jtcm.2020.04.019.

Clinical research linking Traditional Chinese Medicine constitution types with 
diseases: a literature review of 1639 observational studies.

Liang X(1), Wang Q(1), Jiang Z(1), Li Z(1), Zhang M(1), Yang P(1), Wang X(1), 
Wang Y(1), Qin Y(1), Li T(1), Zhang T(1), Wang Y(1), Sun J(1), Li Y(1), Luo 
H(2), Li L(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Studies in Constitution Research and Reproductive Sciences of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing 
100029, China.
(2)Institute for Tibetan Medicine, China Tibetology Research Center, Beijing 
100101, China.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze clinical studies on correlations between Traditional 
Chinese Medicine (TCM) body constitution types and diseases published in the 
past 10 years, and to provide an evidence base to support the use of such 
correlations for health maintenance and disease prevention.
METHODS: We searched five databases for the period April 2009 to December 2019: 
China National Knowledge Infrastructure Database, Wanfang Database, China 
Science and Technology Journal Database, PubMed and Embase. Three types of 
observational studies on correlation between constitution types and diseases 
were included: cross-sectional, case-control and cohort studies. Descriptive 
statistical methods were employed for data analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 1639 clinical studies were identified: 1452 (88.59%) 
cross-sectional studies, 115 (7.02%) case-control studies and 72 (4.39%) cohort 
studies covering 30 regions of China and five other countries (Malaysia, South 
Korea, Singapore, Thailand and France). The collection of studies comprised 19 
disease categories and 333 different diseases. The 10 most commonly studied 
diseases were hypertension, diabetes, stroke, coronary atherosclerotic heart 
disease (CAHD), sleep disorders, neoplasm of the breast, dysmenorrhea, fatty 
liver disease, chronic viral hepatitis B and dyslipidemia. We found high 
distributions for each biased constitution type in different patient populations 
as follows: Qi-deficiency constitution in stroke, diabetes, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hypertension; 
Yang-deficiency constitution in female infertility, osteoporosis, irritable 
bowel syndrome, gonarthrosis and dysmenorrhea; Yin-deficiency constitution in 
hypertension, diabetes, constipation, female climacteric states and 
osteoporosis; phlegm- dampness constitution in hypertension, stroke, fatty liver 
disease, diabetes and metabolic syndrome; damp-heat constitution in acne, 
chronic gastritis, chronic viral hepatitis B, human papillomavirus infection and 
hyperuricemia; blood-stasis constitution in CAHD, endometriosis and stroke; 
Qi-stagnation constitution in hyperplasia and neoplasms of the breast, insomnia, 
depression and thyroid nodules; and inherited-special constitution in asthma and 
allergic rhinitis.
CONCLUSION: Eight biased TCM constitutions were closely related to specific 
diseases, and could be used to guide individualized prevention and treatment. 
More rigorously designed studies are recommended to further verify the 
constitution-disease relationship.

DOI: 10.19852/j.cnki.jtcm.2020.04.019
PMID: 32744037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]